http://www.bogotobogo.com/DesignPatterns/singleton.php

##one instance of a class, maintain global state.
A Singleton is an elegant way of maintaining global state, but we should always question whether we need global state. Singleton pattern offers several advantages over global variables because it does the following:

###singleton pattern advantages over global variable
1. enforce that only one instance of class can be instantiate
2. control over allocate and deconstruction of the object
3. thread-safe access to the object;s global state.
4. prevent global namespace from being polluting 

###bad example 1:
```c++
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

class Singleton
{
public:
	static Singleton *getInstance(); 

private:
	Singleton(){}
	static Singleton* instance;
};

Singleton* Singleton::instance = 0;
Singleton* Singleton::getInstance() 
{
	if(!instance) {
		instance = new Singleton();
		cout << "getInstance(): First instance\n";
		return instance;
	}
	else {
		cout << "getInstance(): previous instance\n";
		return instance;
	}
}

int main()
{
	Singleton *s1 = Singleton::getInstance();
	Singleton *s2 = Singleton::getInstance();
	return 0;
}
```

####why bad example:
- We do not want the singleton by copied so that there is only one instance. This can be achieved by declaring a private copy constructor and a private assignment operator.
- The **getInstance() method should return a reference rather than a pointer. This blocks a client from deleting the object.** Also, by **making destructor private, we can achieve the same effect**.  


#####Return a pointer, vs return a reference:
A function declared as string& getName( ); returns a reference, not a pointer. A reference is essentially an alias for another object. So in this case, it doesn't return a copy of the object's name, or a pointer to the name, but a reference to the name itself. So any changes to the returned object are directly applied to the object's name.  

You could achieve the same by returning a pointer, but there'd be two significant differences:

- a pointer requires special syntax to access (the * and -> operators), whereas a reference is used the exact same way you'd use the object itself.
- a pointer can be null, a reference cannot. So any time a pointer is used, you are signalling to the reader of the code that "this value may be null"
- Ownership may be more unclear when you return a pointer.
- Readability is subjective - I'd say use a reference when you can.

###Revised example
```c++
#include <iostream>

class Singleton
{
public:
	static Singleton& getInstance(); 

private:
	Singleton() {std::cout << "Ctor\n";};
	~Singleton() {std::cout << "Dtor\n";};
	Singleton(const Singleton&);
	const Singleton& operator=(const Singleton&);
};

Singleton& Singleton::getInstance() 
{
	static Singleton instance;
	return instance;
}

int main()
{
	Singleton &s1 = Singleton::getInstance();
	Singleton &s2 = Singleton::getInstance();
	return 0;
}
```
