## Shortest Palindrome via KMP

> Given a string S, you are allowed to convert it to a palindrome by adding characters in front of it. Find and return the shortest palindrome you can find by performing this transformation.

> For example:

> Given "aacecaaa", return "aaacecaaa".

> Given "abcd", return "dcbabcd".

---

##Other's solution
> We can construct the following string and run KMP algorithm on it: (s) + (some symbol not present in s) + (reversed string)

> After running KMP on that string as result we get a vector p with values of a prefix function for each character (for definition of a prefix function see KMP algorithm description). We are only interested in the last value because it shows us the largest suffix of the reversed string that matches the prefix of the original string. So basically all we left to do is to add the first k characters of the reversed string to the original string, where k is a difference between original string size and the prefix function for the last character of a constructed string.

    class Solution{
    public:
            string shortestPalindrome(string s)
            {
                if (!s.size())
                    return "";
                auto l = s + '#' + string (s.rbegin(), s.rend());
                int pLen = l.size();
                vector<int> prefix(pLen, 0);
                for (int i = 1; i < pLen; ++i)
                {
                    int j = prefix[i - 1];            
                    while (j > 0 && l[i] != l[j])  ////we can also use if(j>0 && l[i] != l[j]) here, but use while is more intuitive
                        j = prefix[j - 1];
                    prefix[i] = (j += (l[i] == l[j]));
                }
                return string (s.rbegin(), s.rbegin()
                               + s.size() - prefix[pLen - 1]) + s;
            }
    };
    
    
---
####Explainatopm
    string t = s;
    string l = t + "#" + t_reverse;
    find prefix of t in the right side of string l;
    return t_reverse.substr(0, #of char in prefix) + t;

(-)aabb#bbaa(-), (-)are the same in forward and reverse order string, which means it is a palindrome and can be used as the mutual part of the result. 
    
